Chapter 1 Computer networks and internet

1.1 What is internet
Define of network: (1) Hardware and software description (2) Services description

Define of protocol: Defines the format and order of messages, and the actions taken in responese to these behavior.

1.2 The Network Edge
End systems/ host

1.2.1 Access Networks

Home network: DSL and Cable

Downstream/Upstream channel.

FTTH, fiber to the home.
Active Optical networks / Passive Optical Networks

Ethernet in LAN
WIFI

1.2.2 Physical Media
Transmission media

Guided media: fiber
Unguided media: wireless LAn/digital satellite channel

1.3 The Network Core

1.3.1 Packet Switching
Messages from source are broken into packets, and packets are transmitted to destination. 

Store and Forward Transmission
For a path with N links, each of rate of R, and packets size of L, number of P, the delay end-to-end delay is:
d = (N+P-1)L/R

Queuing Delays and Packet Loss

Output buffer/queue, queuing delays, packet loss

Forwarding Tables and Routing Protocols

1.3.2 Circuit Switching

Circuit switching and packet switching are two ways to move data.

Multiplexing in Circuit-Switched Networks

Frequency-division multiplexing: Frequency spectrum is divided. Bandwidth FM raio stations.
Time-division multiplexing: Time is divided. Slot, Frame.

Packet Switching VS. Circuit Switching

Circuit switching: Need Reservation, rate guaranteed, allocated, not considering of demand;
Packet switching: No Reservation, rate not guaranteed, on demand.

1.3.3 A Network of Networks

Network Structure 1: all of the access ISPs (Customer) are connected with a single global transit ISP (Provider.).

Network Structure 2: Single to multiple global transit ISPs, which are interconnected as well.

Network Structure 3: Multi-tier hierarchy.
Access ISP, connected to Regional ISP, connected to T1 ISPs (global)
Or Access ISP connected to T1 ISP.

Network Structure 4: ISPs in Structure 3 and following points.
Points of presence (POPs):a group of one or more routers in Provider's network, to connect customer ISPs.
                          No bottom level (access ISP)
Multi-homing: ISP can connect to two or more provider ISPs.
             No T1 ISPs
Peering: customer ISPs in same level connect to each other directly, without paying to each other.
Internet exchange points (IXPs): a meeting point created by a third-party, to peer multiple IPSPs.

Network Structure 5: On top of Network Structure 4, Content provider is added, which can bypass T1 ISP.

1.4 Delay, Loss and Throughput in Packet-Switched Networks

1.4.1 Overview of Delay
Nodal delay: 
nodal processing delay (us): examine the packet's header and destination direaction, check for bit-level errors.
                             After this, packet is directed to the queue.
***queuing delay (us to ms): waiting to be transmitted. Vary from packet to packet.  
transmission delay (us to ms): L/R, whole packet transmitted from A to B. Packet length and rate
propagation delay(ms): time for a bit travels from A to B. Distance.

1.4.2 Queuing delay and packet loss

Traffic intensity: La/R.
L: packet size; a: packet coming rate; R:transmission rate.

Packet Loss, due to the full of buffer.

1.4.3 End to End Delay
Including N-1 routers, source and destination.

Trace-route Program: Source sends N packets to a destination, and each router and destination will send message back to confirm receive it; So the source can reconstruct the delivery path.

End system, application, and other delays
Delay by design.

1.4.4 Throughput in Computer Networks
As the transmission rates are different in each segment of path, it has a bottleneck link.

1.5 Protocol Layers and Their service models

1.5.1 Layered Architecture

Layer: provide the same service to the layer above it, and uses same services from the layer below it.
Remained of the system remains unchanged when a layer's implementation is changed.

Protocol Layering

Protocols in layer: each protocol belongs to one of the layers;
Service model: services that a layer offers to the layer above.

Physical -> Link -> Network -> Transport ->(Session) -> (Presentation) -> Applilcation
(Hardware)          (Mixed)    (Software)

Pro: easier to update
Con: duplicate function; one layer need information from other

Protocol stack.

APPLICATION LAYER
Application layer: network applications and their application layer protocols reside.
 
Examples: HTTP, SMTP, FTP, DNS, etc...
Message: packet of information exchanged at the application layer.

Transport Layer
Transport Layer: transport application layer messages between app endpoints.

Examples: TCP and UDP.

TCP: Connection-oriented, guaranteed delivery, flow control, breaks long message into shorter segment.
UDP: Connectionless, no-frill, no flow control, no congestion control.

Network Layer (IP layer)
Network Layer: move network-layer packets (datagrams) from one host to another.

Examples: IP, and routing protocols.

Link Layer
Link Layer: provide service to move a packet from one node to next.
IP layer passes the datagram down to the link layer, and deliver it to next.

Examples: Ethernet, WiFi, DOCSIS, etc...

A datagram may be handled by several link layer protocols.

Link layer packets: frames.

Physical Layer
Physical Layer: move the individual bits within the frame from one node to the next.

Examples: several protocols in Ethernet, etc...

Depend on medium, link.

The OSI Model

Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model, with 7 layers.

Physical -> Link -> Network -> Transport ->(Session) -> (Presentation) -> Applilcation
(Hardware)          (Mixed)    (Software)

Presentation layer: allow communicating applications to interpret the meaning of data exchanged.
Data compression and data encryption. 
Format free for data represented/stored?

Session layer: delimite and synchronization of data exchange.
For save and backup?

Up to the application developer to design function.

1.5.2 Encapsulation

Link layer switch: Link and Physical layer;
Router: Network, Link and Physical layer.

Encapsulation: In Source, Message in application layer, M was sent Transport layer, adding a head (Ht) in front of M, to form a Segment;
               then Segment was sent to Network, adding head (Hn) in the front, to form Datagram;
               then Datagram was sent to Link layer, adding head (Hl) in the front, to form Frame.
               
A packet at each layer has two part: header fields, and payload field.
Payload field: a packet from the layer above.

1.6 Networks Under Attack

Malware. Virus, worm

Denial of service attacks. (DOS)

Vulnerability attack, Bandwidth flooding, connection flooding.

Packet sniffer. Record message.

IP spoofing. Fake IP address, cheating.

End point authentication. To check whether the IP address from source is correct.

1.7 History

Questions

1.1
R1 Difference between a host and an end system. Web server.
A: In this book, host = end system. Host can be divided into client and server. Web server is server part, so it is an end system

R2 Diplomatic protocol in Wikipedia.
A: A protocol is a rule which describes how an activity should be performed, especially in the field of diplomacy.

R3 Why are standards important for protocols?
A: Define of protocol: Defines the format and order of messages, and the actions taken in responese to these behavior.
With standards, people can create different systems and products with a same purpose, build communication between different products in Internet.

1.2
R4 Six access technologies. Home / enterprise / wide-area wireless access?
A: DSL, cable, HFC, Fiber to the home (FTTH), Dial-Up  H
Ethernet, WiFi, H/E
3G and LTE (long term evolution), WWA

R5 HFC transmission rate dedicated or shared? Collisions possible?
A: HFC, hybride fiber coaxial. Share with others on the transmission.
Collision is not possible, as every one from downstream is from same source.

R6 Residential access tech in your city.
A: cable, FTTH, LTE

R7 Transmission rate of Ethernet LANs
A:

R8 Physical media that Ethernet can run over
A: twist copper, fibre.

R9 Dial-up modems, HFC, DSL, and FTTH. transmission rate (R), Shared (S) OR dedicated (D).
A:Dial-up modems, R, D
HFC,, S
DSL,, D
FTTH,, D

R10 Most popular wireless Internet access tech.
A: WiFI; short distance, fast speed, not SIM card needed.
LTE

1.3
R11 One packet between sending host and receiving host. R1, R2; store and forward; end to end delay? L. no queuing, propagation, processing delay.
A: L/R1+L/R2.

R12: Which part is Circuit-switched better than packet? TDM better than FDM?
A: Dedicate rate,more safety, 
TDM: FDM require additional filter to separate frequency.

R13: Total Link 2 Mbps. Each user use 1 Mbps, 20% time.
a circuit switching: 
Max user number is 2. Or 10, if user stop using when not transmit.

b Following using packet switch. If number is less than 3, no queuing; reaches to 3, has queuing delay.
2 users or less: total required rate is equal or less than total link rate.
3 users or more: total required rate is larger than total link rate.

c Probability that a given user is transmitting.
20%?

d User number is 3. Probability that any given time, all 3 users are transmitting simultaneously. Find fraction of time during which queue grows.
20%^3.
20%^3.

R14 Why two ISPs at the same level peer with each other? How an IXP earn money?
A: to save money, using other's connection.
IXP earn money from ISPs.

R15 Google's network. Motivates?
A: To skip T1 ISPs; save money, better service.

1.4
R16 Sending a packet from a source host to a destination host over a fixed route. Delay components. Constant/variable.
A: Transmission delay (C), queuing delay (V), propagation delay (C), processing delay (C).

R17 R, propagation delay, packet size L, Send finishes transmitting before/after first bit of packet reach receivers;
A: 

R18 L=1000 B, Distance (d) = 2500km, Propagation speed (s) = 2.5*10^8 m/s, R = 2 Mbps = 256 kB/s.
A: d/s(+L/R). 0.01 s. NOT related to R.

R19 Host A to Host B, R1=500 kbps, R2 = 2Mbps, R3 = 1 Mbps.
a no other traffic. throughput?
A: 500 kbps = 62.5 kB/s.

b File is 4 MB. Dividing by throughput, How long from A to B?
A: L=62.5 kB. Packet number n = 64. t = 64 s.

c R2 = 100 kbps = 12.5 kB/s.
A: L=12.5 kB. n = 320. t = 320 s.

R20 How end system A creates packets from the file. what information direct packet to the destination in switch?
A: Describe: The file may be divided into several packets, called message M in application layer. 
			 M is transferred to bottom layer, and header is added in each layer as orientation.
			 Header includes, Transmission (Segment), Network (Datagram), Link (Packet).
		     For packet switch, Hl (Link layer) is used;
		     For router, Hl and Hn are used.
 Packet switch: header in Link layer.
 
 Reason: in each packet switch, it will determine next out link by visit header of link layer, which is closest to the final destination.
 
 R21 Max emission rate, min trans rate.
 A: Max emission 500 pack/s, min trans rate 350 pack/s. 
 Not the same.
 
 1.5 
 R22 Five task that a layer can perform. Duplicate on layers?
 A: 
 
 R23 Five layers.
 A: application, transmission, network, link, physical.
